So what else is there
to functions?
Well how about default
arguments?
We have functions that take arguments, like this one, our get winner function
and right now this function will produce unwanted results
if we don't pass values to all arguments. Now let's actually give this a try,
let's say if the user doesn't pick rock, paper, scissors because he entered something wrong
anything like that, well then we don't want to return this default user choice here,
instead we just return here, which means we stop function execution,
we won't reach this line but we therefore basically return undefined,
we return nothing and that will be treated as undefined in the place where we call this function and
try to work with the returned value.
So we returned nothing here
if the user didn't choose anything.
Now of course, I still want to have that default user choice and we could have left the code as it is
but to also show you that feature of default arguments, I'll go with this route now.
So nothing is returned here and that means that down there in player choice, this might be undefined right,
because maybe this doesn't return anything.
So right now if I save that and I reload and then start a new game and I enter something, click
ok, this is not true as we know, instead undefined is returned and indeed here we see you pick undefined
and the computer picked paper and since this leads to our else case here, we lost. So we of course pass
undefined to get winner because our player choice is undefined here.
Now let's alter this code a little bit as well,
let's add an if statement and say if player choice, if it's set, then I want to derive the winner like this,
so I'll move that code into this if block and therefore actually,
I'll create my winner variable outside of that and just assign a value to it here because of that block
scoping so that the winner variable is not just that way in here but also outside of the if block
and now here in the else case,
so if player choice is not set, if it is undefined, I'll set winner equal to get winner and I only call
this with computer choice. So I don't forward player choice because this is undefined, we'd know it's
not useful to that function anyways.
Now the first interesting thing which will happen here and by the way, that's totally independent of
whether you're using arrow functions, you're using function expressions with the function keyword or
function declarations,
this will always work like I show it to you now.
So the first interesting thing is actually that I reload here and I start a game, enter something invalid,
click ok
and we still get that same message as before,
so the interesting thing is that we don't get an error. In a lot of other programming languages,
you would get an error because what we're doing here is we're calling a function, get winner, which actually
expects two arguments, two parameters and we're only passing one. Now Javascript
as you learned already is a quite forgiving language, other languages are not as forgiving
and there you would get an error because in the end what you're doing is you're calling a function in
an incorrect way.
So Javascript forgives this mistake but it then uses undefined as a value for the missing argument, which
makes sense, it is not defined, right? Now that's where default arguments come into play.
You assign a default value by adding an equal sign here and then your default value, like in my case
here, default user choice, this constant which in the end points at rock here.
So that is something we can do here,
this is how we can set a default value.
Now with that, we just have to alter the code down there a little bit, player choice of course still
would be undefined because we never change the value that's stored in there, deliberately because I
want to show you that other approach.
So here we can add a short ternary expression, check if player choice is truthy, if it is, use player
choice, otherwise use the default user choice or as you learned if that's what you want to do,
you essentially can use the or operator and if that is a truthy value, it will keep that,
if it's not, it will return this.
So now we can save that, reload, enter something incorrect here and see rock was picked.
So this works
and now just to again clarify this, obviously the previous approach of just returning a default value
up there in get player choice was shorter.
It is probably the approach you would use normally but this is a nice way for me to show you default
arguments which come in handy in many places where you have a function that can be called in one way
or another
and then having these default arguments can be really really nice.
Now let's dive a bit deeper into default arguments and what you can do with them.
For one, let's see what happens if I actually would pass in my undefined value here.
So I'm forwarding player choice here, I'm considering the choice the player made which will be undefined
and therefore please keep in mind that what we're going to output down there will not be what we pass in
here because we pass in undefined here and therefore hopefull,  we take our default argument, here
at the bottom, I definitely output that we took our default argument, even though we don't yet know
how this will behave here but to find out how our function behaves, we can use the developer tools.
Lets go into our browser, reload, sources and then there, to app.js and in app.js, let simply place
a little marker inside of the get winner function
and now click that button here, enter some garbage and now this will pause and if you now hover over
pchoice, you see rock was used here.
So this has a value of rock
even though player choice which we're passing in will be undefined. As you can see, if I zoom out
a little bit here so that this is easier to read, as you will be able to see if I scroll down a little
bit here and I place another breakpoint here right before we alert the winner message
if we resume, now we can get insights into the variables defined here and indeed, you see the player choice
is undefined right,
that's what's happening here, it's undefined and still, winner did actually use rock as a default.
So if you pass and that's the takeaway, if you pass undefined and I'll clear these breakpoints,
if you pass undefined here as an argument where you have a default argument, then the default argument
will be taken but only for undefined, other falsy values will not have that effect.
So if you would pass a falsy value like null or an empty string or zero here, that value would be kept
and especially the zeros shows why that's the case.
If you pass in zero, well you certainly will have some functions where this is a normal value,
let's say you have some add function where you want to add two numbers, maybe you want to add zero, might
not make the most sense but you certainly don't want to take some default value in that case, you don't
want to overwrite the user's wish of adding a zero.
So that's why other falsy values are not replaced with the default argument, undefined is replaced however,
so passing undefined or omitting the value altogether has the same effect and the default value comes
in.
Now in addition, you also can define arguments parameters with default values before you have arguments
which don't have a default.
So if we add see choice here after this, this would be valid. In some other programming languages, this is
not allowed.
There your parameters with default values always have to be the last ones in the list of parameters,
simply for the reason that these here can be populated with default values,
this here can't.
So now for example if we call get winner with only one argument here, like we do in this case, this
value here will actually be passed in as a value for pchoice, even though that has a default value,
the order of how arguments are getting their values is not changed
and here we pass exactly one argument and this is at position one of our argument list
obviously since it's the only one, therefore the first parameter here will receive it and it doesn't
matter that this parameter would have a default value.
Javascript won't look for other parameters without default values and try to assign your value to those,
that would be a pretty bad behavior because it would mean that Javascript tries to be smarter than you
are, you the developer and that can lead to a lot of unintended behaviors in your code. So therefore Javascript
doesn't do that and hence you can have default arguments before other arguments but that means that
if you only parse one argument here, this one argument is stored in this parameter here, so you get that
parameter here and this will simply be undefined.
So that's just something to be aware of,
therefore in most cases, you automatically have a set up where your default arguments come last because
then you typically have functions where the first arguments always need to be defined and then the last
arguments can maybe be omitted and therefore you have your default arguments there.
Another interesting feature, when assigning a default value, you can even use parameters that came before
that parameter.
So if this default value should take this parameter into account, you can do so. So you can definitely
add this here,
let's say in a ternary expression where you check if this is equal to rock and in this case, you don't
use the default user choice which would be rock but you use paper, something like that.
This would be valid code,
of course this is cheat mode
now, this means that whenever the computer uses rock, we automatically win but it's just here to demonstrate
what you can do.
You can refer to other parameters in your default arguments,
just make sure that the arguments you are referring to came before this parameter where you assign a
default argument. So that's it for default arguments,
I'll remove this cheat mode here and just make sure we set this default user choice. So if we now reload
and enter some garbage here, rock is chosen for us,
we had a draw because the computer also picked rock. Now a computer picks scissors
so we won. So that all works, of course if we enter a valid value just to test this as well,
then this is taken into account because then we call the function differently, then we call it like
this and therefore this is it for default values,
a handy feature which allows you to write more flexible functions.